# Healthcare Coverage Within the Foster Care System
Group 57: Noelle Humkey, Yordi Taeme, Zynab Harif

Pitch:

The foster care system in the United States is a system composed of state and federal agencies, social workers, and foster families that provide temporary housing and support for children who can’t live with their birth parents. Children can be placed in foster care for a variety of reasons, including parental drug abuse, and incarceration with abuse and neglect being the most prominent. While the goal of the foster care system is to ensure the safety and well-being of children, the system often ends up failing many children due to a lack of resources, overcrowding, and high rates of child abuse and neglect. What often goes unaddressed is the connection between healthcare and the foster care system.

Children in foster care are at higher risk for chronic health issues such as asthma, diabetes, anxiety, depression, and post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), that are a result of the trauma and instability that they have endured. One of the biggest challenges in providing healthcare for foster children is that they often lack access to comprehensive medical records. When a child enters foster care, they are often forced to move from home to home quite often, making it difficult for medical providers to have access to their complete medical history. This can lead to delays in treatment, missed diagnoses, and medication errors. Also, many foster children have complex medical needs that require specialized care, but they may not have access to properly trained healthcare providers.

For this project, we would like to dive into the lack of comprehensive medical records and care for children who are a part of the foster care system and how a better system could be implemented to help those impacted by it. We can analyze data on the number of children in the foster care system, which health conditions they have, and if they have a comprehensive medical record that dates back to when they were born, to determine the correlation between lack of healthcare and the negative impacts it has on foster children. Improving healthcare for those children is solely dependent on the collaborative efforts of both the healthcare system and foster care system.
